Suppliers:
Each supplier has one supplier number (SNO), unique to that supplier (as you can see from the figure,
I’ve made {SNO} the primary key);
one name (SNAME), not necessarily unique (though the SNAME values in Fig. 1.3 do happen to be unique);
one status value (STATUS), representing some kind of ranking or preference level among available
suppliers; and one location (CITY).


SNO  SNAME  STATUS   CITY
----------------------------
S1  Smith  20       London
S2  Jones  10       Paris
S3  Blake  30       Paris
S4  Clark  20       London
S5  Adams  30       Athens


Parts
Each kind of part has one part number (PNO),
which is unique ({PNO} is the primary key); one name (PNAME); one color (COLOR); one weight
(WEIGHT); and one location where parts of that kind are stored (CITY).


PNO  PNAME  COLOR  WEIGHT   CITY
----------------------------------
P1  Nut    Red    12.0    London
P2  Bolt   Green  17.0    Paris
P3  Screw  Blue   17.0    Oslo
P4  Screw  Red    14.0    London
P5  Cam    Blue   12.0    Paris
P6  Cog    Red    19.0    London

Shipments
Relation Shipments denotes shipments (it shows which parts are supplied, or shipped, by which suppliers). Each
shipment has one supplier number (SNO), one part number (PNO), and one quantity (QTY). For the sake of
the example, I assume there’s at most one shipment at any given time for a given supplier and a given part
({SNO,PNO} is the primary key; also, {SNO} and {PNO} are both foreign keys, corresponding to the
primary keys of S and P, respectively). Notice that the database of Fig. 1.3 includes one supplier, supplier
S5, with no shipments at all.

S#  P#  QTY
------------
S1  P1  300
S1  P2  200
S1  P3  400
S1  P4  200
S1  P5  100
S1  P6  100
S2  P1  300
S2  P2  400
S3  P2  200
S4  P2  200
S4  P4  300
S4  P5  400




1.13 Write CREATE TABLE statements for an SQL version of the suppliers-and-parts database.
1.14 Write SQL INSERT statement against the suppliers-and-parts database:

6.9
a. Get all shipments.
b. Get supplier numbers for suppliers who supply part P1.
c. Get suppliers with status in the range 15 to 25 inclusive.
d. Get part numbers for parts supplied by a supplier in London.
e. Get part numbers for parts not supplied by any supplier in London.
f. Get all pairs of part numbers such that some supplier supplies both of the indicated parts.
g. Get supplier numbers for suppliers with a status lower than that of supplier S1.
h. Get part numbers for parts supplied by all suppliers in London.
i. Get (SNO,PNO) pairs such that the indicated supplier does not supply the indicated part.
j. Get suppliers who supply at least all parts supplied by supplier S2.


7.9 Write Tutorial D and/or SQL expressions for the following queries on the suppliers-and-parts database:
a. Get the total number of parts supplied by supplier S1.
b. Get supplier numbers for suppliers whose city is first in the alphabetic list of such cities.
c. Get city names for cities in which at least two suppliers are located.
d. Get city names for cities in which at least one supplier or at least one part is located, but not both.
e. Get part numbers for parts supplied by all suppliers in London.
f. Get suppliers who supply at least all parts supplied by supplier S2


Write the following constraints:
8.21 Using Tutorial D and/or SQL, write constraints for the suppliers-and-parts database to express the following
requirements:
a. All red parts must weigh less than 50 pounds.
b. Every London supplier must supply part P2.
c. No two suppliers can be located in the same city.
d. At most one supplier can be located in Athens at any one time.
e. There must be at least one London supplier.
f. At least one red part must weigh less than 50 pounds.
g. The average supplier status must be at least 10.
h. No shipment can have a quantity more than double the average of all such quantities.
i. No supplier with maximum status can be located in the same city as any supplier with minimum status.
j. Every part must be located in a city in which there is at least one supplier.
k. Every part must be located in a city in which there is at least one supplier of that part.
l. Suppliers in London must supply more different kinds of parts than suppliers in Paris.
m. The total quantity of parts supplied by suppliers in London must be greater than the corresponding total for
suppliers in Paris.
n. No shipment can have a total weight (part weight times shipment quantity) greater than 20,000 pounds.
In each case, state which operations might cause the constraint to be violated.